[Music]
all I've seen if mommy's delivering food
to you I know it's just peekaboo
navneet Pardeep my or hello everybody
cool okay so we're live on YouTube now
Alex how's the structure of this one
gonna work start just by talking about
the situation with chests and we'll have
a look at the official IELTS page and
just direct you guys there for your
questions to do with you know is your
test postponed what happens if it's
postponed and then we'll get back to
aisle stuff will go through talk about
reading and listening questions
speaking questions writing questions
just like we always do that sound all
right sounds good
we'd like with live streaming on the
IELTS page thing maybe it just hasn't
come up on my phone yet you guys can
start popping your questions in and
we'll see how we go yeah no let's um I
can't see your screen should we are we
gonna screen in the official page
or just talk about it um yeah I'll
screen share okay that's good for me oh
yeah it's good to have some class while
we're in lockdown yeah I agree
why not okay great I've got it on my
phone it's working okay all right cool
so I'll manage this and I'll field the
questions and um Alex will do a lot of
the answering okay actually we'll go to
the official IELTS page and you guys can
find this easily described in I'll talk
annual stumble across this they've got
information about every country and
what's going on in terms of testing so a
lot of you may be in Australia some
tests are suspended but you should check
with your local test centre that the
information on the website and from what
we hear you you will be contacted if the
test is canceled or postponed
and you can get a refund or reschedule
so it shouldn't be a huge drama just an
inconvenience but it might just mean you
know one more month or two more months
of study so yeah have a look on here
that's probably the best most reliable
place to get up-to-date information and
and just checking it quite regularly too
because it's obviously there's lots of
changes happening in the world very
rapidly so make sure you're up to date
check this every day but you can expect
to hear from IELTS if your test is
cancelled at this point I think I
obviously want the test to go ahead so
just keep an eye on it keep repairing
presume that it's happening and yeah
hopefully it will it's very hard to know
day to day week to week hopefully
another question that people may have is
about travel bans I don't I don't know
if it's like this for IELTS but 4:08 II
a lot of people have to travel to a
different country to take the test and
of course there are travel bans on so
just be very conscious of that while the
test might be going ahead in this
particular country you may not be able
to get to that particular country so
that's another thing you need to keep in
mind cool is there anything else about
kovita of course it's a very
destabilizing and quite scary time so
just really do I really
I really do recommend following whatever
your government says especially about
staying home and self isolating and all
that sort of stuff I think this is very
important that we all follow the rules
here it's it could potentially be very
serious so that's my my two cents on
this potentially serious yep cool all
right yeah let's do it let's do about
reading and listening first in speaking
and writing just to try and break it up
into a logical fashion if possible and
was about everything else at the end for
a few minutes - so shall we start with
reading
listing if you've got questions that are
specific about that part of the test
please put them in the chat box and
we'll try to field as many as we can
okay first question is from I can hear
the dog running around outside diliman
says if I score a low-scoring reading
but I score a high score in writing do I
get an average score yes a high score
reading will will lift your score up but
some places like unis for example they
often require a minimum of 6 or a
minimum of 7 so just check on that yeah
or they will average out yeah but what's
important really are those individual
skill scores right because you might
need to get 7 in everything so it
doesn't matter if you get 6 in reading
benign in writing it's not it's that's
not gonna cut it yeah depends on who the
recipient of your test results I suppose
for some places they just want an
average but yeah most of them they have
a minimum okay here's a good question
it's about grammar do I need to be good
at grammar in order to be able to read
well oh I know to read well I feel like
well of course good grammar helps
everything supports everything I would
think more about vocabulary in terms of
reading like the more vocabulary the
higher your reading score will be yeah
but you definitely need a combination I
mean the test is a test of your language
skills which the foundation of which is
grammar and vocab right do you agree
yeah I agree I think primarily the
meaning will come from the vocabulary
but there's also meaning within grammar
for example you think about verb tenses
indicating that happened in the past or
the future there's lots of meaning
within the grammatical structures as
well so yeah I think it would improve
your overall reading comprehension not
as asked a very practical question about
the computer-based IELTS test yeah which
is
can we use a pen and paper to take notes
during this test mm-hmm
yeah you can that's a really good
question and a very good feature of the
computer test you do get a bit of paper
and pen and they they take it off you
after each section so that you can't
keep your notes from the reading to use
in the writing okay red knees got a
great question which is about listening
Read Me finds it difficult to understand
whether the answer is a single word or
two words with a - or - or two words
joined together like a compound noun how
do I practice that really well the text
is written very carefully so if it's
something like what's an example of that
what's it trying to think of a word that
might sometimes be one word sometimes be
two words I can't think one either but
it can be a word like newspaper for
example some people might split that up
but actually that is that's one word
okay never hyphenated it's never online
you know because it's funny thing with
the hyphens because what happens is
first of all we start out with its to
separate like on line in the 1990s it
would have been on line and then it
becomes hyphenated and then it becomes
over time just one moment it's like the
evolution of these of these compound
words but usually they're not that
tricky I wouldn't worry about it too
much fire ants honestly yeah and you
just look at the word count so if it
says it has to be only one word and rise
it with a hyphen or write it as one word
with something like book club or I can't
think of a good example but if it says
one word definitely do not write two
words mmm there's you can write two
letters - it should be okay break it up
good one sumit ask the question I'm just
gonna paraphrase zoomits question which
is which of the reading tasks is the
most difficult do you think
[Music]
well most people contact us worried
about hitting's
and of course true false not given mm
but I think I think the more difficult
ones are a classification or matching
ones when you have people's names and
you have to match to their theory or
match to their comments or matching
sentence starts and stay and sentence
ends I find those ones a bit trickier
especially because they come from all
different places in the text for me
those are more challenging headings and
2bas not given no problem I tell you
what the last time I took alt s-- was
with you actually and I remember a true
false not given question was it was a
true false not given question and the
answer was not given but it was just so
tempting to write false because it kept
mentioning it but not quite
contradicting it kept mentioning but not
quite being contradictory and I was just
like I think I actually chose chose the
wrong answer mm mm just be careful
because you know when they're looking
for that true false not given on a
certain section those they'll get to
they'll tempt you they'll tempt you to
write false when it's not given okay so
it has to absolutely directly clearly
contradict and then you can say false
but if not you have to say not give him
that was a real I've got me last time
yeah we've been doing that a lot in the
free Alfre crash course class we always
touch on true false not given and in the
reading classes as well we come back to
that question all the time and we try to
really show how the question works
something with pictures or simple
examples and build up to the more
difficult ones Romans got a question in
listening yeah in listening the the long
multiple-choice style questions and I
agree I find that hard because what
you're what you're really doing there is
you're listening and reading at the same
time but you can't do both of those
simultaneously it's like for a bit read
for a bit listen read for a bit you have
to do this like
it's tricky what would you suggest Elise
well the first thing I would say is to
read the question stems first so rate if
there are five multiple-choice questions
read or all five questions or also stems
and just forget about ABC for a while
and then if you have time come back to
the ABCs and then as you're doing it I
reckon there's two options one is you're
eliminating the destructors as they as I
disprove you know option A or B you can
eliminate that or you can try taking
notes and when I do it I do a kind of
combination of both and sometimes
scribbling things that I hear and I also
will cross out something that has
definitely been eliminated it's really
all about distractors the reading the
stems rather than reading all of the
options is more important because
otherwise the question might move on and
you don't know what's coming next and
you might miss two or three questions
rather than just one okay next question
is from SBC it says how can I practice
the computer-based IELTS at home well we
have the mock test we had the same
problem that there wasn't anywhere to
practice the full test in the
computer-delivered format like they have
books and books and books of paper
deliver dials so we created on the
platform a mock test which uses the
computer based delivery
so the reading is exactly like the
reading test that you take on the
computer and the listening the same
thing so you can click between the
screens you put your answers in there
into the questions you can highlight on
the screen all those things so that's
one place that you can practice practice
with computer delivered and practice
tests on the side we've just put four
new listening tests as well inside the
courses on e to language so for
listening test in the computer to limit
format it's bizarre that there's no IDP
have put out a couple of practice
questions but not a full test it's quite
annoying fun test prep people yeah check
out ET language comm if you're watching
this on youtube
right now took things I want you to do
one is click the subscribe button so you
get to see all of our cool videos the
second thing is to after this is
finished go and sign up for free a TT
language calm because we give you lots
of free quest practice questions we give
free live classes that you can join with
expert teachers lots of free stuff there
so check it out and if you want you can
always upgrade for more ok so there's a
question a few people are asking about
the difference between IELTS in PT e ok
where do I start with this they're quite
they're quite different tests they're
quite different one of the big
differences especially in the reading
section is IELTS has is quite long
passages right different questions on
this on the one passage the difference
in with PT is short passages one
question per short passage and the
passage changes each time so one will be
about space exploration then you're
reading about zoology and then you're
reading about I don't know whatever
equine health something I see a picture
of a horse so I said that so that's
there's a big difference there
the other difference is obviously the
question types changed PT has multiple
choice just like IELTS but they have
some sort of unusual ones when you first
start practicing PT like reorder the
paragraph another one which one
dictation
yeah they do it they do that they do
yeah they do like a write from dictation
we hear a sentence you write the
sentence and also speak from dictation
sort of thing in here sentence a
sentence so there's quite significant
differences but overall in terms of like
academic English test well you know in
terms of difficulty they're pretty
pretty similar I would say mm-hmm I'd
say IELTS is a bit harder for writing
and I'd say PT is a bit harder for
speaking that's my general gist all
right now I've run out of questions so
we should be listening and reading yes
let's go on to speaking we'll come back
if there's any questions left at the end
we share the screen so everyone can keep
up with what we're doing
we'll talk about speaking for a little
while now you want to just give an
overall how speaking works ah yes some
most of you I know in the chat box are
regulars here you know there's three
parts to the speaking test the
discussion personal discussion at the
start the two-minute talk in the middle
and part three the deeper discussion at
the end we just head out and all the
other day Jay on YouTube you can find
that video I don't know who's winning I
do know some people are saying you some
people are seeing me yes oh speaking is
on the course by the way inside the
course there's a lot of stuff where you
can practice on your own a lot of people
ask how can I prepare for speaking by
myself and you can't actually do quite a
lot even in the live classes we get you
to record yourself and listen back
everybody hates I know but it's so
valuable if you pick up things that you
are not conscious of so in the platform
we've developed it so that you it's like
a real test I'm on the screen asking you
questions you push the recorder and you
can listen back to yourself and listen
to a sample so I would recommend that
especially just like at home and can't
get out to practice with someone you
know I think this is a really good time
if for anyone who is in lockdown in your
house this is a great opportunity to try
online learning for the first time even
if you've never done it before and
you've usually done you know you prepped
down at the coaching center try it try
it just go to eating language comm see
what it's like it's pretty good it's
just like this the live classes are
great they're interactive there's real
people it's a good way to learn
okie-dokie speaking so assume it says
what happens if I get an unfamiliar
topic in say pot - mm-hmm it's extremely
unlikely that you'll get an unfamiliar
topic yeah especially pop women - it's
all about normal everyday stuff
something like talk about a movie when
we do that
was talking about a team talk about a
business talk about a time when you were
angry a time when you were polite
they're all sort of very common common
things if by some miracle you you don't
know any words but on the piece of paper
you can ask the examiner to change your
topic and they will do that but even my
experience of an examiner that never
happened the topics were always
accessible
Shiina asks or says part two is very
difficult for me do we have a method I
mean look there's different ways to skin
the cat and Alex likes a particular way
to do it I like a particular way to do
it my way that I like to do it is to
look at that what he call it it's task
card or something yeah and he'll say
something about tell me about the last
time that you were angry where were you
who were you angry at blah blah blah and
so what I like to do is not tell one
particular story because if I do I run
out of I just I just can't speak for two
minutes about one time I was angry so I
actually split it into three times I was
angry once when I was really young
immediately something comes to my mind
once recently and once that I might with
this one sort of doesn't make much sense
that might be angry in the future okay
you could but you can do that you can
say listener potentially I might be
angry in the future if I have you know a
friend and blah blah blah and he would
do this and so and what I find when you
split it into three stories is that
you're obviously using past tense to
tell the story from when you were young
you might be using present perfect
present perfect continuous for the
relevant recent story and then for the
future story future tense and modal
verbs so it starts a really very your
grammar you don't go round and round in
circles it's it's definitely it you have
to practice it but I like that
particular one what do you do Alex well
I think yeah your I would consider your
version the extremest PPS method and
there's a slightly less extreme one
which is talking about
the one time that I was angry but but
including something from the past the
present and the future
yeah within that so that's a less yes
fanatical version of it and then the way
that I do it I'll just call it a
traditional version which is I always
start with a bit of just background
information almost like an essay at the
start because I can't talk about that
kind of topic for two minutes it's
really difficult so I talk you know in
general if the topic is the holiday I'll
say I've been on lots of holidays and
I'm really looking forward to something
coming up well the last 15 20 seconds
and I'll just work my way through the
topic through the task card it has four
points for me to talk about and I just
try to draw it out you think of the
other question for you what is it why
don't you like the word ha I told her
yesterday that you know because somebody
made a stupid youtube video that was
titled use these five words to get an
IELTS 9in speaking that is a hoax that
is fake news that isn't it it's just
like please plethora so actually no
there's a there's actually one word that
if you do use you will get a 9 it's it's
gullible it's a joke okay so some good
questions here here's a really good
question from DNN Jeanine says in part 3
where you have to do this sort of longer
answer ones if I'm repetitive with my
answer but I am actually varying my
vocabulary is that a problem I think I
would have to hear that in practice if
you mean that you're saying the things
being over and over but in a different
way hmm I don't think that it's don't do
that okay yeah yeah I think that's quite
unnatural and you you're not developing
part of the score also in sort of
develop your ideas particularly aim
at eight and nine and fluency coherence
idear development comes into it a bit so
you can't just say the same thing over
and over
okay so you can bury your vocab and you
and you can use little hacks like saying
just say the same word but with a
different word like I'm I'm really I'm
really into gadgets devices you know so
I just put into two interesting words
but I wouldn't yeah I wouldn't just go
around and around hmm yeah yeah but I'd
avoid that if you can sigh cat says it's
an interesting question what's the best
way to start i'm let's let's talk about
part two so you mentioned that you like
to sort of do it like an essay i like to
what i do because my extremist BBF
method which is true i like to sort of
jog my memory so i'll say something like
well one of the times that i can
remember when i got particularly angry
was when i was young okay so that's sort
of it gives me it's a little
introduction and it also jogs my mind to
say okay i'm gonna be telling a story
about the past told the examiner i'm
gonna be telling a story about the past
i'm gonna be using past tense verbs etc
and then i'll shift or transition i say
okay but more recently i got angry when
and then all sort of shift into the
present moment and then i lost for the
third transition to the future i say and
in the future i could possibly get angry
if and i'm just sort of used those three
transition points like that so that's
how i start basically in part two part
three is fine because you just
responsive i find it much easier part
two i find very difficult yeah going in
part to him what i do is basically just
read what's on the task card sir
okay i'm gonna tell you about a team
that i was a part of and then i go into
like my introduction my sort of
background information mmm love being
part of a team and at the moment i'm in
this team and that team and blah blah
but i want to tell you about this one in
particular so it's there's no harm in
just saying what's on the car i'm gonna
tell you about
this and then I start oh that's yeah
that's good I like that because that
buys you that buys you like 20 seconds
doesn't it the other thing to do which
is very clever is if the in part three
of the examinar see quite a complex
question you can't just immediately have
an answer so you say well that's a
really interesting question I've never
really thought about that before
let me see well then you can begin and
while you're sort of doing that hmm
that's an interesting question blah blah
blah you're again sort of giving
yourself a bit of time to generate some
thoughts which will then turn into
language hopefully yeah and really the
key to all of these like the simple
answer to every question is practice
like what's the best method what's the
best strategy well your method works for
you J and my method works for me and we
know that because we've done it hundreds
of times all different topics all
different situations and for you guys
watching is the same for you just try
PPF try traditional and see what works
for you and just do it over and over
with a bunch of different questions and
today you'll be fine you know exactly
what you're doing
cool last question for speaking which is
from young produce says is it good to
tell jokes in speaking I think it's fine
to to laugh and to be congenial that the
words certainly I wouldn't tell a joke
like knock-knock
my people would laugh with me when I was
an examiner yeah I think the nicest sort
of approach to take is to be very
sincere I think that's nice you know
you're there you want to pass this thing
you're not sucking up to somebody don't
suck up to the examiner don't be
arrogant you're really you're really
trying to pass this test so you're
really listening carefully you're really
being sincere in your approach and I
think that's probably the best sort of
this angle to take yeah if you think of
it like a job interview like a job
interview for your English the English
is on display that's probably a good
tone and body to ask about
for more we should be I would consider
it like a job interview but perhaps not
quite that formal nice all right let's
go on to the next topic which if we're
missing your question we've got a
hundred and ninety people watching this
including a guy oh look a shaggy which
is good to see more cash back in here
quick reminder that we have $15 off
every package at the moment even our
super cheap express package with the
voucher code stay home let's talk about
though can you go back to that I just
want to tell them how to use that so
when you actually when you go to e to
language calm and if you decide that you
want to purchase our mock test or you
want to upgrade and get some writing
feedback or or even the gold package
with the tutorials and the feedback and
the mock test etc what you do is you
click upgrade and then at the payment
gateway where you have to enter your
credit card details there's a little
thing that says I think it says voucher
code and you just type in stay home 15
and that will reduce the price by $15
for questions about the packages also
really recommend getting in touch with
our help team absolute superstar they're
working all the time just go type the
email address in on zoom' which is hello
at a2 language comment on youtube the
same just for questions like how long do
I need what package is best for me they
answer those questions all the time and
they are really the best people to to
handle that for you all right I'll try
ting all right I can see compound
sentences written here from Nick Jaya
what did Nick say Nick said why is the
check it moving come back okay Nick says
I have watch the videos on complex
sentences by Alex and the different
sentence types by Jay I have a question
regarding compound sentences can they
start with words such as furthermore
consequently or do such terms have to
come in the middle of the sentence I
think there's sort of two questions
there I'll have a go at this one first a
compound sentence can be
in with the word like furthermore or
consequently that's fine it's just a
little adverb hanging off the front and
then you do your sort of two-part
compound sentence I think the question
here though is about the use of words
like furthermore consequently however as
a results and how to insert them into
your essay in a really elegant nice way
so they don't just stick out there's a
bit of a rumor which is the more of
these words you use the better your
score will be that's incorrect so you
can't use none either there's like a
fine balance I'll let you take it from
there Alex yes I'll agree there's two
separate things the compound sentence is
not connected to the word consequently
although those are linking words but
they do not create the more of adverbs
they just sit at the front of a sentence
or in between a part of the sentence so
the point about having those words at
the beginning they can come across as a
bit formulaic and they call it
mechanical in the criteria if you always
start with a linking words like firstly
comma however comma therefore comma that
kind of linking it's fine it'll get you
a six but you're gonna struggle to get
seven or eight or nine if you only use
those linking words as for a compound
sentence it was in the complex sentence
video that you watched compound
sentences sentence with two basically
two sentences and a word in between the
word you can remember those words with
the acronym fanboys for and nor but or
yet so those words creates a compound
fit how can I enroll with the speaking
class and probably writing class gerund
et language com yeah but but the
speaking class I should mention that is
a class by our paid members so some of
our writing classes in this class and
the study group and the little crash
course sessions are free but reading
listening speaking and
our other writing classes are for paid
members but you can be a paid member for
a very cheap price at the moment and the
real benefit of that also is you can
watch all the recordings of the classes
so you don't have to physically be there
it's the middle of the night or
something you can go you can watch later
cool so I have one question about
speaking here from violet I know we're
talking about writing but let's go back
to speaking violet it has a good
question which is why do all examiner's
have like pokerface even when I tell a
really funny joke where are you taking
the test there might be you I don't want
that cultural thing but I think that in
some cases yeah examiner's that I know
here they're very pleasant but I've
heard a lot of stories about even in the
UK people say a very rusty why do they
do it probably because they're just it's
it's their job they're concentrating
there as you're speaking they're
thinking about a lot of things they're
watching the clock like crazy because
you can't go two seconds over time what
two seconds of time and probably just
are processing a lot that whatever the
examiner is doing just don't don't worry
about it just pretend that they're your
best friend and don't let them distract
you cool all right let's go back to
writing so Govinda has a great question
which is how do I know if I'm writing
off-topic in writing tasks - well it's
hard to know with your own writing I
guess um my advice for that would be
this is something that came up last
night in the writing class we were
writing about smoking and quite a few
people who drifted away you've got to
just keep looking at that question as
you plan and even after you plan as you
write just keep going back and checking
because that's something that examiner's
are very very fussy about like if you
drift off the topic a little bit your
score it's gonna plummet so it's really
in your best interest to just keep
coming back to the questions as always
make sure every word every sentence that
you're writing it's not about that topic
and that's
it's about that particular question so
it might be something like we have one
in class about social media social media
as a news source and when we do that
class people often just drift off to
talk about other benefits and drawbacks
of social media in general and miss the
point about social media for news but if
they like that you'd really lose a lot
of points cool here's one from a guy who
has a great name Jay how do i improve my
vocabulary for writing tasks
- and I think this is a great
opportunity to talk about a new platform
that we've just built a new website that
we've just built that he's a hundred
percent free and it's called e to school
calm and honestly while you're stuck at
home you may as well build your
fundamental skills because that's what
this website is all about and there's
level four on there and maybe Alex you
can tell us what level four does yeah
which is it's kind of a support course
for our e to language students who are
doing I of BCE
Oh 18 and built around themes with a
strong focus on vocabulary and it works
a lot on repetition of vocab so hearing
it reading it writing it saying it as
well so that's definitely a good place
to go and as he said we've opened it up
for free and it also has live classes as
well and the live costs are really fun
that's like your if you need a little
break from writing an IELTS if a jump on
to 80 school and yeah you do play games
and build Grandma bill Boca and then
come back - oh yeah check that out check
out e to school comm Kabir
you were talking before about going off
topic in the essay this is how far off
topic Kavya went because your essay
topic was about smoking cigarettes
Kavya said yeah I felt like smoking for
several hours after the class it's
definitely off topic yeah a little bit
maybe that's okay
psycho says how do I get from an eye out
six to a seven in writing like what's
what's the difference there I think
often the missing link there is feedback
actually just recorded a podcast last
week with dr. Anna maybe you guys in
chat know Hiroshi takes quite a lot of
our classes she takes a lot about
tutorials
she also marks your assessments when
they come in and she's had a lot of
success with her tutorial students going
from 6 or 6 point 5 to 7 point 5 some of
them to 8 as well and often it's a
matter of feedback from the teacher like
you especially if you've taken the test
three four times and you're always
getting 6.5 that means the test is right
your score is 6.5 your level is 6.5 so
you need to do something you need to
change something it's not like they keep
making a mistake with the test there's
some problem there and so what we took
what I talked about with Anna is
identifying for each student what is
that problem and then you've got to fix
it how do you think that she or she
helps you do it we hope you do it with
your feedback so it's often something
like a big one is idea development and
we work on that in class a lot like
taking your idea you know as far as it
can go you say your opinion you say why
I say how you give an example and you
also mention an effect a possible impact
of this situation but doing that working
on that it can make a really big
difference otherwise you might be just
making you might think you're doing the
right thing but your paragraphs possibly
yeah sometimes you just don't know what
you're doing wrong and so quick and easy
to have an expert say right you're doing
these three things wrong don't do it
again someone in here skit says I keep
getting 6.5 in writing but I get 7.5 in
the rest of my mile it's test feedback
is just like you'll sort that out okay a
little bit more on writing because
writing such a challenging one so let's
keep going here
Vigoroth says how to avoid spelling
mistakes and I would suggest here that
you know you know
which words your well most of the time
you know which words you you can't spell
well you're not confident with so you go
to spell the word unnecessary for
example oh is it two ends two S's two
hours what's going on here so you just
change the word and say not needed okay
so that's one way to avoid a spelling a
spelling error
just find a synonym choose that one
instead of the other one Harman is asked
about academic writing task 1 which is
everybody's favorite writing task and
the question is Alex should we have an
introduction to academic writing task 1
or do we have an overview and what's the
difference yeah both the introductions
this chart shows blah blah blah yeah and
overview explains their main trends if
it's change over time like what went up
what went down main trends or the main
differences you might have some pie
charts what's the difference between
them for the main stages if it's a
process how many steps how many machines
where does it start and finish if you
are not sure about task 1 structure
please come to a live class we can clear
it up for you in one hour you will know
exactly we do the same structure every
class doesn't deviate intro overview key
features key features like a robot you
will be much more comfortable asses
there's one coming up tomorrow so make
sure you register for that it's a real
that task is really hard isn't it yeah
it definitely takes a bit of practice
but once you know what to look for you
have a bit of a strategy it's easier I'm
going to bring up Jay a few people
asking about different structures for
opinion if a so you teeth on a month
this is something also we talked about
yesterday I mentioned that there's two
there are several approaches to an
opinion essay one of them is you can
argue a hundred percent of one side by
doing that funny one is if my first
reason body two is my second reason and
a few people mentioned that you have a
video where the and other way to argue
100 percent is best body my view
second body others view and then destroy
that view and I said both of those are
completely fine your take um I was
reading question so it wasn't paying
attack opinion essay it's okay to write
its look at a structure with my opinion
my first reason for my opinion my second
reason for my opinion or your version
and this is my view and nobody this is
what other people think and they're
wrong because yeah I think they're both
fine those structures are there yeah I
personally like to sort of lay out the
other side of the argument and then say
why it doesn't make sense yeah and often
if you if you only have one really good
idea so the thing we did guess about
smoking a lot of people only had that
idea it's bad for the health of
non-smokers
so then you can't really think of
another idea so you have to use that
other structure other people think
smoking shouldn't be banned because of
agua and they're wrong okay okay okay is
that enough for writing do you think
maybe send your question - hello Eddie -
if anyone has any questions just hello
@e - language comm email our support
team will get back to you somebody says
here tell us what a good date could you
know this person's probably stuck in
their house what's a good daily time
table and exercises to improve and
achieve an IELTS with a little time so
yeah I mean what I like what I would do
if I were you is in e2 language comm
we've got the live classes no Monday
it's reading Tuesday it's listening
Wednesday it's being whatever their I
can't remember the exact thing but what
I would do is make sure I attend that
live class with our expert teacher and
do some you know reading practice that
day so whatever's on in the live class
you just do a bit of prep come to the
live class really that's a great way to
learn and it's because it's live and
there's other people in there just like
what we're doing now and there's an
expert teacher it's really a fantastic
way to prepare for your IELTS test yeah
I agree
a lot of classes - as the skeleton of
your practice so like yesterday's class
the writing task was opinion essay so
then on the platform you go into writing
task 2 you go to the opinion section and
you watch the method or you do the
practice in there also in that class we
were talking a lot about articles and I
shared a video link with you guys and
also recommended course skills so in the
course skills section there's an
unlimited amount of grammar in there
that you could dip into study group is
another thing I'd recommend but we're
gonna try in the next couple of days to
send out an email and let you know
what's coming up in the classes and what
you can do to prepare so but next week
for instance you could start preparing
for tables if you're an academic student
and formal letters if you are a general
student that's what we'll be doing in
the writing classes and also a slightly
different opinion it's a next week as
well and a daily habit to improve
writing
Avantika asks so I had my microphone
meet then no no that's okay um I was
just thinking I might actually just
quickly show off e to school what do you
think yeah can you share I can write
let's do this alright can you see my
screen yeah okay cool so this is a to
school so you go to e to school comm
this is a new website and it's got a
full pathway from absolute beginner
English level 1 2 3 up to level 4 which
is sort of you know if you're struggling
with the IELTS this is the or PT or
whatever this is the course you want to
do there's also pronunciation course and
grammar course it comes with live
classes I'm not sure who this amazing
teacher is but she's one of the teachers
so let me just show you how it works
here I'll show you the level 4 course so
this is the dashboard here you come in
here you you can see all the different
topics for level 4 culture and society
environment health education science
technology these are the sorts of topics
that you're going to get in your
ese the problem is you don't know which
one you're gonna get on the day so you
should have a good vocabulary wide range
of vocabulary for all of them so let's
go into culture and society crime for
example one of the IELTS tests that I
did I had to write an essay on jail
sentences for criminals right so I
needed a lot of vocabulary about you
know misdemeanors and juvenile
delinquents and criminals and punishment
and all this sort of vocabulary so you
can see how it's broken down there's
vocabulary building reading practice
collocations with natural sounding
phrases writing practice if I just click
start here I'll show you how this works
so you come in there's a nice little
video here where this amazing teacher
welcomes you and tells you how it all
works you click Next well there's a
shaking thing going on there interesting
then there's this like fun little video
Co know who this handsome guy is but
he's in there as well
this one's building your vocabulary you
click next this amazing teacher does
some sort of gap-fill listening exercise
with you where is she she's in there
somewhere
this is so you can see it's a really
cool course and you do some short
writing exercises and it's broken down
like that so where am i I'm here it's
free it's free it's a hundred percent
free and if you're worried about your
IELTS test go and sign up to e to school
comm check out level 4 if you don't feel
like you're at level 4 you can do level
3 level 2 level 1 there's also a
pronunciation course a grammar course
it's free and if you could do me a big
favor if you like it you try it out you
think this is cool can you post it on
your Facebook page and say hey everyone
while you're bored it locked in at home
check out this website it's 100% free
okay no more advertising where are we up
to
vocab so I think yeah II - school is a
good place I also want to mention on
into language which is where we are now
there's a vocab section in there where
you can download big word lists the
general word list the academic word list
as the academic collocation list we just
added if you've seen my video on vogue
have you know that I'm not massive fan
of lists but they are there for you if
you want to use them you can find a
creative way to make use of them but
we've also put the topic toolkits up
there which were our popular little
download doing the vocab section there's
a button and topic toolkit and you can
download ten of them and that's also a
great way to pass your time so if you
download the one on art there's essay
topics practice essay the whole practice
speaking test all about art there's also
link so you can watch TED talk about our
listen to a podcast read an article very
good foundation for your vocab there -
so what else can we offer I mean people
are asking really good questions you
know with this crazy co vid thing and
locked into the house I mean people are
talking about how to build habits and
and whatnot for language learning and
you know one of the problems is like
where do you start what do you do do you
read a newspaper whatever no I think I
think what we've done what we've created
for you is the way that you should
improve your English e to school for
your vocabulary grammar you know general
English skills build them up and then go
across to e to to do your test prep so
and it's all laid out
there's calendar schedules live classes
that's how you're gonna build a nice
habit during this time so make the most
of this time I think rather than sitting
there thinking ah the world's gonna end
think okay eyes on the future what am I
going to do - you know for when I do
take my IELTS test next month or the
month after how am I gonna kick its butt
yeah I think it's really great to see
that our classes are so busy at the
moment it's really good to see I think
everyone has got that attitude like may
as well I may as well make the most of
this time so everyone's working really
hard and I've antica I'm sorry I started
to answer your question and then we
veered off topic but a daily habit to
improve
and I would also use the live classes
for that so what's your recording of the
lower class we'll come to a lot of fuss
there almost every day and do whatever
writing happens in that class and you
know can wake up the next day look at
the topic again and do the same again so
don't just write it once write it a few
times and if you're submitting your work
for feedback as well make sure you
rewrite that with all the corrections
too so you know don't just write
something in like it's done it's an
ongoing process I've only got um Oh are
we done cuz I've got ten minutes and I
have to yeah I think yeah I know we
missed a few questions I'll type again
the help desk and email in and if you're
watching on YouTube its hello at YouTube
language dot I do you have that slide
can you show the slide help got the
website though eg language comm yup good
one and the card yet if you want to
upgrade so the cheapest package we've
got which gives you access to live
classes and all the recordings is thirty
nine US dollars and now it's twenty or
what's 39 minus fifteen I did this the
other day and I was just like I couldn't
come up with the answer and then people
in the chat put in like five different
answers alrighty I might um
bail out I've got a run yeah well let's
wrap it up thank you guys for coming
along I hope that was helpful for you
and come to our live classes there's one
starting at six tonight yeah yeah build
some good habits let's do it ah
bye yeah